Network Protocols
Talking is easy, right?
We all do it every day.
Whether it's in person, by email, or by text.
But what happens when something goes wrong?
What happens when what we're using to communicate
just isn't reliable reliable relelelelelel.
We use protocols.
Protocols is a fancy word for a simple concept:
Communicating formally.
The stock market's doing so poorly,
whatever shall I do?
Not like that.
Pilots use protocols.
Their communication has to be reliable and efficient.
They have to be able to communicate
with other planes and various airports
in order to stay safe.
For example: how do they report their position?
What happens if they don't understand what was said?
What happens if they don't hear back?
You can get into some pretty awkward situations.
- So what runway should we use?
- [Incomprehensible]
I think he said 'land on the cake'
Okay, we're landing on the cake.
What now?
To avoid this, we use protocols.
Protocols are a way to formalise communication,
such that we don't get ourselves in trouble.
That's why pilots are always repeating stuff.
Always repeating stuff.
And use special codewords to avoid being misheard.
Christchurch tower, charlie charlie alpha approaching
eastern fire break, one thousand five hundred.
We have Information Julie at 1-0-3-4 in 4-B-O-B.
Request landing on runway.
Pilots, emergency services, law enforcement, surgeons,
builders and even you use protocols every day.
They are essential to effective
and efficient communication.
Scalpel.
A lot of people think the internet is bulletproof.
But it's not.
Messages are lost, corrupted,
and delivered out of order all the time.
Think about when you send a message on Facebook.
If we didn't have protocols,
it would look something like this:
[H3y *>%thony, How a$$re you?!?]
Luckily, the message arrives on
the other side of the world just fine.
The protocol is in place to ensure each word or letter
is delivered properly, and if need be, they are resent.
In this chapter, you'll learn about
protocols such as TCP and UP,
which are used to build
awesome applications on the web.
Even people in the film industry use protocols.
For example, to finish filming people say cut.
- He said cut!
All sorts of people use protocols.
- Good for me
- I think that's a wrap.
But in this chapter, guys?
- Yep, audio's good.
Guys?
- See you tommorrow Sam.
Are we still filming?